Title: Greatest Healthcare in the World
Date: 2017-01-17 10:43
Category: fiction
Tags: fiction

Tim paced uselessly.  There were less than 13 hours until the deadline for his
GoHealMe campaign.  If he didn’t reach his funding goal by then, he wouldn’t
get any of the money.  He had taken a sleeping pill, but all it did was make
his thoughts feel like they were happening outside his mind.  He kept pacing.

He had already raised $10,575 of his $12,000 goal.  Just $1,425 to go with 13
hours left.  

The US had the greatest healthcare system in the world.  Any condition that
could be treated by modern medicine was available.  All he had to do to get
treatment was gather enough money and he could be fixed right up.  Sure, it
used to fall on the sick person to try to pay for their own care, which was
totally stupid, but eventually someone figured out a better way.

GoHealMe was the answer to everyone’s prayers.  People used to be squeamish or
embarrassed to ask for help paying for their personal medical care, so it was
difficult for folks to come up with the money for their treatment.  With
GoHealMe, a lot of small donors could come together to each give $5 or $10 and,
collectively, they would fix you up.  Most folks didn’t mind shelling out $5
for a friend to get better, so it effectively eliminated the shame from asking
other people for help.  Other crowdfunding sites had refused to participate in
the financing of important medical procedures for some reason, but GoHealMe was
dedicated to it.  It had all kinds of cool features that let you research the
procedures and see how much it cost for them at different hospitals or with
different doctors so that you could help your friends get the best care
possible.  

The crowdfunding model was so awesome that occasionally someone’s health
project would go viral and, blammo, they would get tons of money to get
whatever they needed.  There were no superstars of the old healtcare system.
Everyone heard the stories about little Bernadette with cancer, sitting alone
in a bed, her bald head peaking out through a pretty flowery headband who
raised over $3 million from the kindness of strangers on the internet.
Everyone knew about Josh Rippas, former track star, who raised $2 million and
got cool new prosthetic legs that let him run faster than he could with real
legs.  With GoHealMe, the friends you’ve met throughout all of your life could
come together and chip in to get you well again.  If you were lucky enough to
go viral on the internet, you might even get an upgrade.  Everyone knew the
GoHealMe celebs.

Tim needed a costly operation on his left lung.  The doctor had told him that
there were two options: For $2,000 he could remove the lung entirely, leaving
Tim with only one lung or for $12,000 he could try to repair it.  He didn’t
understand all of the medical details, just that having one lung sounded like a
bummer.  Usually his mother dealt with all of the medical stuff, but she had
died 3 years ago after funding for bypass surgery didn’t come through.  Tim
figured since he had over 1,000 Facebook friends, so he was sure he could pull
together enough to cover the cost to fix it.  He used the GoHealMe estimator to
show that if each of them gave, on average, just $11.56 to his campaign, he
could get the more expensive version and get all fixed up.

Plus, Tim had always been sure to donate to his friends’ GoHealMe campaigns,
even back when he didn’t have a lot of money to pay for his own food he made
sure to chip in a little.  Just last month, he donated at the LifeSavers level,
$100, so that his ex Sady could get an ovarian cyst removed.  The LifeSaver
level was supposed to get him a special, personal description of how he helped
her posted to her other donors so that everyone could see how generous he was,
even for an ex.  She hadn’t even posted the full list of her BFF-level donors
yet, the bitch.  She was always thinking about herself more than others.  Every
time Tim got a donation he made sure to put the donor’s name into the right
draft post or to start writing up a personal thank you post for his larger
donors.  That way they could all go out as soon as he got funded.  He had been
keeping up with daily, donor-only live chats thanking them all for helping.  I
guess some people just don’t take other folks’ concerns seriously.  That is,
after all, why he broke up with Sady in the first place.

His phone dinged in his pocket.  He popped it out, nearly dropping it, to see
who donated, but it was just a reminder that there were only 12 hours left
until his funding deadline.  “Shit.  I’m never gonna raise fourteen hundred
dollars in twelve hours” he complained to no one.

Maybe if he added another reward level.  For $1,000 he could use some of his
airline miles from all of his work travel to buy someone a nice packaged
vacation or something.  He should have enough miles saved up for that, after
all that’s what he was saving them for.  But who would fund him for that much?
All of his close friends and family members already donated.  Nah, that
wouldn’t work.

Maybe if he could make an awesome, viral video he could post it around and see
if it took off.  After all, that’s how Josh Rippas got his cool, new prosthetic
legs.  But what kind of video could he make that would go viral?  He had no
idea.

Another ding.  This time he sat back down at the computer and refreshed.  “$1
FirstResponder-level donation from Anonymous.”  Well, that was better than
nothing at least, but Tim was pretty sure he wasn’t going to reach his
fundraising goal this way.

He lit up a cigarette and paced some more.  The doctor said smoking is likely
what got him into this whole mess in the first place.  He didn’t have one for 3
whole months after his initial diagnosis, but with the stress he was feeling
lately he started up again.  When it happened, he didn’t even realize he had
bought a pack.  He was just so nervous on the day he launched the campaign that
he fell into the old habit of picking up a pack on the way home from work at
the store down the street.  Work… Thank god for his job’s benefits package.
They would match, dollar for dollar, all crowdfunding campaign donations for
most common medical stuff, which is why his procedure was only $12k and not
$24k.  Without that, probably removing the lung would have been his only
choice.

He had only one cigarette left so he figured he’d better use it to go walk over
to the store and buy another pack.  Now was definitely not the time to think of
quitting and the walk would keep him from constantly checking whether any new
donations came in.  Maybe if funding comes through for his procedure he’ll
definitely try to quit again.  He refreshed the page again before walking out
the door.  No more donations yet.

---

He was so distracted he nearly knocked over a down the hall neighbor as he left
through the front door.  “Oh, hey, Nancy.  Sorry, I uhh, didn’t see you there”
he fumbled.  

“Don’t worry about it, silly” she responded and lingered around as Tim composed
himself.  “I guess you forgot that I’m a BFF-level donor for your lung thing,
so give me that hug!” 

Tim could barely remember the list of donors, but he sort of remembered seeing
that Nancy had thrown in $5 or $10 and one of the perks was for friendship
forever hugs whenever they crossed paths.  “Uh, Sure “ he gave her a
half-hearted hug, almost forgetting about it while his arms were wrapped around
her.  “Look, I’ve got to…”

“How did that whole thing go?  Are you all fixed up yet or what?  Anything
bionic?” she pressed on.

“No.  The campaign ends tomorrow noon.  Still a lot to go until it is funded.”

“Oh, that stinks.  I can remember when my mom had this back problem, she
couldn’t even get off the couch for, like, a month, and the operation to fix it
was suuuper expensive, so we tried to get it funded but there was no way we
were going to make it, we just couldn’t believe that she didn’t have enough
donors after all of these years but you know with the older generation they
haven’t yet gotten used to all of the technology these days, so we…”

“Hey, I hope everything worked out for your mom, but I was just headed over to
the store and I had better get there before they close.” Tim tried to pull out
of this conversation he was now, somehow, trapped in.

“Yeah, of course.  She did eventually get the operation, like I was about to
tell you if you were listening, but she literally almost didn’t make it because
it was sooo much money that there was no way.  But then my dad went online and
found this site, BorrowHealthNow or HealingNow or something like that.  It was
a total life-saver… hah… they gave her the rest that she didn’t get from
friends and, boom, back operation.  I guess she’s still paying them back a
little here and there, but it is way better than not being able to get off of
the couch, you know what I mean?”

“Oh, that’s a really great idea.”  Tim heard the part about borrowing money
online and he started getting excited that maybe this was a way out for him.
Why didn’t he think of that?  He barely caught any of the rest of what Nancy
said, but he turned to go practically running along with his mind racing at the
thought of a way out.  “Thanks so much.  I’m going to check out that site as
soon as I get back.  Gotta run!”  

He took off down the street for the store.  

---

He smoked 2 cigarettes just on the way back to his apartment he was so excited.
He sat down in front of the computer, popped open a bag of popcorn he picked up
at the store since all this worrying was making him hungry, and started to look
for the site Nancy told him about.  GetHeathToday was the site.  

He was absolutely amazed.  He could just put in the info about his GoHealMe
campaign, and some personal details and then they would make sure to fund
whatever amount was missing just before the end of the campaign.  It was
fantastic.  They had all kinds of payment plans, some were practically nothing,
just pay them $10 a month until it is all repaid.  It seemed almost too good to
be true.  He couldn’t sign up fast enough.  By the time he was finished signing
up, which only took 5 minutes, he was exhausted.  He decided to try to get some
sleep now that the sleeping pill seemed finally to be kicking in.

---

He woke up late the next morning, groggy.  Luckily he planned the campaign to
end on a Saturday, because he wouldn’t have been able to work through the
nerves.  He had received just $25 more in the night from a couple of people.
But he was able to breathe a sigh of relief knowing that the loan would cover
the rest.  

He hung around his apartment for the rest of the morning, popping handfuls of
the popcorn from last night into his mouth.  He wanted to be here at noon to
make sure everything went smoothly.  He was still nervous even though he had no
need because of the loan, so he was practically chainsmoking cigarettes now.
Definitely have to think about quitting again after this is all over.

Sure enough, at 11:55 AM, a donation came through from GetHealthToday for
$1,399.  That put him exactly at his funding goals and at noon, everything was
done.  He got everything ready to go for a celebratory video message to his
donors and hit record.

Looking into the camera and gesturing wildly, he announced, “Hey, guys and gals,
all you FirstResponders and BFFs and LifeSavers out there!  I just wanted to
say thanks to all of my donors who helped me out so much.  We totally made it
to the goal and I’ll be heading to the doctor to get everything scheduled first
thing next week.  I'll try to get all of the rewards out to you guys this
weekend, because you totally came through for me.  But for now, a huge thanks
to everyone who chipped in and just know that this is going to get me fixed
right up.  The US really does have the greatest healthcare in the world.  I
feel better already.  Woohoo!  Thanks again!”
