Title: A Taste of Honey
Date: 2017-02-10
Category: fiction
Tags: fiction

The door opened and time stopped.

From my vantage point only hints and suggestions were available to me.  Yet I
felt a thrill of emotion.  I felt the brisk morning air from the open door
energize me.  My senses tingled in anticipation.

I tried to appear calm though inside I was singing.  I tried to appear
intelligent yet my mind was babbling nonsense.  

The steam from my coffee cup rose languidly in the air in front of my face.  I
could not resist the pure joy of tasting the tiny notes of sugar amid the
roiling chaos of dark chestnut.  My lips sensed that it was nearly scalding and
without hesitation I sipped.  I let the sense of it all play throughout my
mouth.  The pleasure of this internal sensation, hidden from the world around
me, kept my rapturous attention for the long moments as I waited.

My eyes had a clarity that my vision lacked.  A spot.  Removing my glasses
transformed the world into sensation.  The people of the coffee shop were no
longer people, but feelings and experiences turned into color and splashed
around the room.  Here was the challenge of presenting to a crowd leaning
around a pillar.  Over there was kite-surfing for the first time in a couch by
the wall.  A warm blanket on a cold day stood behind the counter.  Getting my
first dog gesticulated wildly at the next table over.  Approaching was the
passion and confusion of my first kiss.

My formative experience took a seat across the table from me.  My glasses, now
clean, I returned to my face.  Fitting them in position the world came into a
focus unusual to me.  I could see everything so clearly that I had a sense I
was on the knife’s edge of being able to see the future.  I spent a moment
solidifying the experiences arranged throughout the room back into people.

Fixing my attention across the table, I managed a “Hello.”

“Hi!” she said, cheerily.

“I love you.” I said with the earnestness of just realizing the truth of it.

Laughing, she replied, “Of course, silly, we’ve been married for like 6 years.
I love you too.”

Her smile was honey.  In an instant I was lost in the pure sticky elation of
it.  My world for a taste.  I remembered to smile back.
