Title: A Deal So Good You'll Practically Die
Date: 2017-02-03
Category: fiction
Tags: fiction

For anyone out there who is signing up for a gym for the first time, they will
try to sell you Personal Training services.  I received a free first personal
training session.  Instead of laying on my back while a hot guy pushed one of
my legs back, it was more being intensely embarrassed about being exhausted
after lifting a 5 pound weight for like 2 minutes.  

After the whole ordeal was done, this scene unfolded.  Probably you might wish
to prepare yourself if you are ever in a similar situation. 

---

Just 10 more.  There you go.  I got you.  3...2...1 perfect.  That wasn't so
bad, was it?  Nah, I didn't think so.  Let's just get a drink of water and head
on back into the office.

Just take a seat right over there.  How long do you think that was?  

Yeah, you're right it was 10 minutes, but I bet it felt like an hour, right?
hah, hehe

Cool, cool.  I'll just go over all of these details and start filling in these
forms.  You said you weighed 235 pounds, right?  Okay...

Here are your options.  You could go for once a week for only $30 or twice a
week for $50, it is that simple. Now there is an enrollment fee, which is
usually $149 but I can go ahead and save you $50 on that right now, so that'll
be just $99.  Got it?  Good.

Now we do this for 52 weeks, which is a full year. Can you think why we do it
for 52 weeks?

Nah, not to lock in our profits for the year, it is because it takes time to
build muscle.  Getting to your goal of, let's see... "Moving a little bit every
day."  Well there's your first problem.  You need a **Goal**.  You need
something to achieve that keeps you coming back.  Sure you could just come in
here and walk on a treadmill for a while and that would be *better* than not
doing it, but you won't become truly *healthy* like that.  You need to build lean
muscle to get where you need to be.  Anyway, we'll talk about that more in your
first session.

Don't worry about the 52 weeks though, because here's what we do... If you, for
whatever reason, miss one of the sessions it rolls over.  So you don't lose it
just because you missed one, you just make it up later with no worries.  Isn't
that awesome?

And if you want to cancel at any time they do this awesome thing where they'll
buy back half of the total cost of the year that you haven't used yet.  That
way, you're not on the hook for the whole thing.

I see you hesitating, but let me just tell you, I've seen tons of people come
through here and they don't last more than a few weeks because they don't have
commitment.  Sure, the anxiety you feel from just entering a gym is probably
enough to counteract the entire pizza you ate for lunch but without goals and
commitment, you'll just find some excuse not to come.  We can work together to
make sure you achieve those goals.

Look, you and I know that if a person isn't healthy then they are at risk for
all sorts of problems.  There is routine injury just from not being strong
enough as you stand up off the couch, there is heart disease or even heart
attack, as well as diabetes and other issues.  And if you sign up for these
classes, I'm sure we'll get you to the point where you can stay healthy 'at
rest' which means you're burning calories and staying healthy without working
hard at it.

So what do you say?  Not yet?  Look, there are 55 million people with gym
memberships in the US and 60% of them don't use them at all.  So if you sign up
for these classes, we'll get you coming in here every week for sure and get you
healthy.  Because you don't want to wind up being a statistic.

Wait, hold up a second before you leave.  Because if you walk out that door,
you'll probably just wind up with a gym membership that you're already paying
hundreds of dollars for just going to waste.  If you want, we can start
measuring your body right now and fill out your personal fitness tracker with
your first week's information.  That'll get you started down the path to being
healthy.  9 out of 10 people don't come back after two weeks of signing up for
a gym.  I've never seen someone stick with it without commitment like this. So
let's get you on the path so you won't become a statistic, because statistics
DIE.

Oh! Hey!  Come back!  I can take another $50 off the enrollment fee!  

...
