Title: The Trump Feeling
Date: 2017-01-31 16:58 PM
Category: general
Tags: politics,humanity

As our country crumbles down around our ears an interesting aspect of people's
reaction is that it is frequently suggested that this is a white people
problem or white people are unduly upset about it.

@prisonculture/status/825375557529509889

Even just after election night there was an [SNL sketch about it](http://www.nbc.com/saturday-night-live/video/election-night/3424956?snl=1).

As a white person, this whole Trump nonsense gives me the screaming
heebee jeebees.  I'd just as soon let the politics happen however more informed
people think is important, IDGAF.  My white privilege assures me that I
can ignore things which I find in any way inconvenient.  I guess you could say
I'm a Democrat since I typically would vote that way, but mostly I just prefer
when things make sense.  I believe that it is part of the government's role to
try to improve the quality of life within the country and make sure the economy
doesn't collapse in addition to all of the foreign policy stuff.  On some long
forgotten level I suppose that also makes me a Democrat, but I don't really
know if the parties break down like that anymore.

Also as a white person, I benefit from racism.  As a man, I benefit from
sexism.  It is great to have benefits.  If you get the chance to be a
run-of-the-mill straight, white man I suggest you try it.  What is not so great
that my benefits come at the expense of others.  That cost is not worth the
benefits that I get, at least not for me.  Now I may not believe that I am in some
way personally responsible for racism or sexism to any significant degree, but
I understand that I have benefited from those things.  My ignorance of
complicity in them probably means that I am guilty of supporting them through
my direct action.  I have generally been open to the people in my life saying
"Hey, asshole, thing X you're doing is bad and wrong!" and I will try to change
my behavior.  None of this matter except to give you the context of who I am.

Donald Trump's election isn't just dangerous because we will turn a blind eye
to some racist policies or some traditional American oppression.  We certainly
will do that, but that is not the new hotness of horror causing all of the
white angst.  The danger is that he isn't just racist, but he wants to build a
giant, 2,000 mile long monument to racism along the Mexican border.  The danger
is that he isn't just a creepy old guy when it comes to women it is that he is
a criminal, a sexual predator.  All he seems to value in others is loyalty, but
not normal loyalty.  He wants some kind of creepy, sycophantic loyalty where he
will humiliate you in public just to force you to demonstrate that you are
subservient to him in all ways, in all things.  He will do these things at the
expense of reason and if necessary at the cost of the very thing any reasonable
person would want or what might be good for the country.

Now, as a white, male, middle class person I generally do not live with any
kind of fear about my situation.  The scariest thing I think about on any kind
of routine basis is that a bunch of evil ninjas will jump out of the bushes and
I'll have to Bruce Willis them all to death.  Yes, I am afraid of the police
when I see them, but I am not afraid that they could kill me because I'm
wearing a hoodie and get away with it.  I have a belief (perhaps wrongly, but
still) that if a police officer killed me they would be held responsible for
that act.  Now, I also understand that many black people do not feel that same
way about the police.  That many black people feel like the police can take
their lives with impunity.  The fact that those feelings are justified is
horrible and needs to be corrected, but the only point I'm trying to make is
that at least some black people walk around with the feeling in their hearts
that their very life can be taken from them without consequences for the person
responsible for it.  That feeling is not a feeling that I have on any routine
basis about my own safety.

That feeling with respect to being killed by a police officer is just an
example.  I believe that this same justifiable fear of this type of danger
spreads across many other areas of people's lives.  I mention black people
specifically, but I believe that in America straight, white, middle-to-upper
class men are the only group who has the privilege to not have to feel that way
about *any* aspect of their lives.  What that means is that I am free in a way
that blinds me to the fact that others do not feel this way.  I am in no
danger.  I think everyone should feel like this and, frankly, I often feel like
they do even though intellectually I know they do not.  The lack of whatever
this fear is, is the reason that communicating those types of problems to white
people doesn't work very well.

Now the reason Donald Trump is so terrifying to white people is because he
gives us that same kind of fear.  Because Donald Trump is president, I am no
longer free.  I am in danger.  Having Donald Trump as president risks not just
increasing the institutionalized racism, misogyny, xenophobia, homophobia but
it adds to that list everyone who is not a Donald Trump loyalist.  I am not
usually be in one of the groups listed in any list of -isms and -phobias.  But
now, because of Trump's election I have a feeling that if my life is
inconvenient to Donald Trump he will take it from me without any consequences
for him.  Of course he won't do this personally, but things in this country can
change in such a way that it is possible or even probable.

President Bush sent Americans of all colors and genders off to war.  He knew
that some of us would die.  He judged that price acceptable for whatever ends
he desired.  You may, and I do, judge him harshly for that.  He paid for
revenge with the lives of Americans and the lives of innocent civilians.
History will not be kind to him.  Yet I do not believe that he did this
capriciously and completely without regard for the cost.  He may have done it
without proper *respect* for the cost.  He may have been misled or confused, but
I don't believe he was flippantly disregarding American lives.

President Donald Trump will take your life for no greater reason than because
he can.  You will die because "When you're president they let you do it."
Everyone who is not personally, secretly manipulating Donald Trump or
personally, publicly submissive to him is in danger.  Because he is in charge
of the most powerful military in the world, the entire world is now in danger.
Consider his statement about Iraq's oil, "...we should have kept the oil. But,
okay, maybe weâ€™ll have another chance."  The moment Donald Trump took the helm
of the most powerful military in the world, everything in the world became his
for the taking.  And he will take.  He will fleece the money out of the
government for himself.  He will take bribes, he will set up institutionalized
payments into his own pockets.  He will use the military to take the things he
wants that people aren't giving him, including respect.

Everything Donald Trump wants, Donald Trump will try to take.  And if your life
is in his way, then you are in danger.  That is a threat that straight, white,
middle-class men are now subject to in a way that we were not under Obama or
indeed at any other point in my lifetime.  Of course, all Americans and,
indeed, pretty much all people in the world are under the same threat, but the
fact that it is new for people like me is what makes it so palpable to us.  A
lot of white people are maybe complaining that Donald Trump's election means
the country is racist in a way that they did not previously acknowledge, but I
personally believe that the truth is that we now know that whatever hatred is
behind that thing we call 'racism' also applies to us.  That is what people are
so upset about.

I think the term 'racism' is too specific to describe what is really happening.
Yes, racism won in the election, but so did misogyny, so did homophobia, so did
tons of other terrible things.  This time, hatred and willful stupidity won.
If you believe that hatred won't apply to you because you're an American
citizen, then you are wrong.  If you believe that hatred won't apply to you
because you're white, then you are wrong.  If you believe that hatred won't
apply to you because you're a Republican, then you are wrong.  The only people
who are completely safe it seems are members of Donald Trump's family.

I am not trying to say that white people are special in being threatened by
Trump like this.  I am only trying to point out why the perception exists that
white people are unusually upset about this.  Feeling existentially threatened
in this fashion is new to us, so forgive us if it is shocking.  If "trump"
wasn't becoming synonymous with a million other terrible things, I'd suggest we
call this a "Trump Feeling" and it could be used to communicate with white
people, a la:

    Black person: "Black Lives Matter."
    White person: "But surely All Lives Matter, right?  Why would we talk about 
                   black lives specifically?"
    Black person: "Because this police situation gives me a Trump Feeling."
    White person: "Gotcha.  What do we do about it?"

Or perhaps:
    
    Woman A: "Having a bunch of people randomly compliment me when I walk down
              the street is scary."
    Man B:   "But why, we're just trying to be nice."
    Woman A: "Because it gives me a Trump Feeling."
    Man B:   "Oh god, I'm so sorry.  I never realized."

Of course, we're in this thing together.  We were always in it together.
I don't think we can just roll this back to before Trump happened.  People will
die.  Harm will come to Muslims and LGBT folks and Latinx people and white
people as a result of their idiotic hatred.  This is going to do lasting damage
to everyone in a rainbow of different, shitty ways.  The good news is that they
are not very good at their jobs, they are just unusually evil and vile beyond
what we have protections for.  If we come through this with the country still
in tact, we'll be able to protect against it happening again.  At the very
least, we'll all be together to try to withstand it and help one another
through.  Maybe your children will get a chance to be as ignorant of the Trump
Feeling as white people were 4 months ago.
