Title: Shopped
Date: 2017-01-12 16:20
Category: general
Tags: commentary

The current political tenor in the US is, let's say... tense.  One particular
aspect of the current conversation is the idea of "fake news."  Of course, the
idea that random idiots have been making up random stories to share with
anyone who would listen is not new.  What is new is that these news items have
started to invade the same channels that the real news occupies.  

The "fake news" is not relegated to Bat-Boy stories in a tabloid magazine in
the supermarket checkout aisle, easily discernable from a newspaper.  It now
occupies your Facebook timeline alongside real news.  This is not a new
or interesting aspect to this issue.

The alarming aspect to this issue appears to be a subtle shift in thinking.
Because these days essentially all news comes through the computer or phone
screen into your face, it seems that people have decided that basically
everything should be subject to the same level of suspicion as everything else.
I am not talking only about people's interpretation of events or with popup
news sites run by Macedonian teenagers.  I am saying that news widely reported
on CNN, MSNBC, Fox, etc, etc is somehow still subject to the same easy
dismissal as "fake."  

Now bias is a factor in all communication and the news is no different.  So all
sources of information are biased in some fashion.  It is useful and important
to have some sense for the biases of the organization and individual who is
providing your news to you.  But some things are beyond bias.  For instance,
just before I decided to write up this post, I saw a person (who I will not
name) responding to a thread about the #pizzagate nonsense who was not just
defending the veracity of the pizzagate claims but said that "No one shot up a
pizzeria.  Fake News."  Here's just one story about it:

[http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2016/12/05/how-internet-conspiracy-theory-led-gunman-into-dc-pizza-parlor.html](http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2016/12/05/how-internet-conspiracy-theory-led-gunman-into-dc-pizza-parlor.html)

Critically, this is not an argument about **why** that person did the thing or
whether it was deserved or whether the conspiracy theory is true or any of
that.  This person is denying the basic fact that a man went to this pizzeria
and fired a gun.  Every news source you might consider credible reported this
as the *basis* for their story.  Again, their interpretation may have been skewed
in some way or their reporting may have omitted important information or
whatever, but that isn't even the discussion.  This person is denying the fact
that such an event took place at all.

This is not the first time during the election or since that I have seen a
denial of the barest facts about things that have happened.  And this, I think,
is the most disturbing aspect to the problem.

I am scared half to death about what is about to happen to our country.  I try
to think and research every day about steps that I could take to help correct
or prevent the injustices and, in some cases, atrocities that are about to
happen.  But if we cannot even agree on objective reality then maybe it is all
pointless.  This kind of thing is what steals my hope more than anything else.
If reality is no longer an important part of our conversation then I start to
doubt that any improvement is possible.  I hope this is just internet trolls
doing what they do, but I am not sure if I believe that.

I think that the first and perhaps most important issue for us to fix is to
figure out how we can ensure that everyone occupies the same shared reality.
You may have a separate interpretation or opinion or beliefs about events, but
we must at least find a way to agree on what the events themselves are.  If we
are not all experiencing the same reality then we have no hope of coming to any
kind of equitable agreement about the important decisions that must be made.

Relevant XKCD: [https://xkcd.com/331/](https://xkcd.com/331/)
