# About Me

I am a former product manager who writes code.  I provide consulting services
to companies in both subjects and all areas in between.

## Product Management

Product Management is often what can make the difference between a successful
product and a disaster.  Often times being overly focused on development means
overlooking the important aspects of Product Management, such as clearly
defining when the product is ready to ship, what features are actually
necessary, and what adds time/cost without adding value.  

If you are building a product ask yourself these questions:

* Is what I'm building right now absolutely required by my current customers?
* After I build this feature, will my customers pay me more money?
* After I build this feature, will I be able to get more customers?

If you answered "No" to all three questions, you might need some Product
Management help.  Of course, there are things that don't add value in this way
but are still necessary.  The feature might be a part of your company's or
product's identity, the feature might be speculative so you aren't *sure* the
answer is yes but you hope it is, and there are various other perfectly good
answers to those questions.  You should know what your answer is and be able to
defend it.

If you're not sure of those things, then you might be wasting money and clear
Product Management can help.

## Development

I specialize in Django web development.  To that end, I can make an Ansible
deployment process to automate the infrastructure running a site to eliminate
human errors during deployment and save time.  I can optimize your
Postgresql/Mysql database queries so that they are not pointlessly wasting
resources and creating a slow experience for your users.  I can offload tasks
to a Celery backend service so that your app can keep humming along while the
work is done in the background.

Importantly, I can work to understand your needs.  I can offer suggestions
about your software based on your business needs and I can help write the
requirements before coding them so that you get the software you really need.

## Contact Me

If either of those things sounds interesting or necessary to you or your
company, send me an email: moss.paul@gmail.com.  
